For every asset that needs protecting,
there are dozens of vulnerabilities.
Finding those vulnerabilities and
fixing them before they become a problem
is the key to keep an asset safe.
We've already covered what
a vulnerability is.
Recall that a vulnerability is a weakness
that can be exploited by a threat.
That word, can,
is an important part of this description.
Why is that?
Let's explore that
together to find out more.
Imagine I handed you an important
document and asked you to keep it safe.
How would you do that?
Some of you might first think about
locking it up in a safe place.
Behind this is the understanding that,
because documents can be easily moved,
they are vulnerable to theft.
When other vulnerabilities come to mind,
like how paper burns easily or
doesn't resist water,
you might add other protections.
Similar to this example,
security teams plan to protect
assets according to their vulnerabilities
and how they can be exploited.
In security, an exploit is a way of taking
advantage of a vulnerability.
Besides finding vulnerabilities,
security planning relies a lot on thinking of exploits.
For example, there are
burglars out there who want to cause harm.
Homes have vulnerable systems that
can be exploited by a burglar. An
example are the windows.
Glass is vulnerable to being broken.
A burglar can exploit this vulnerability
by using a rock to break the window.
Thinking of this vulnerability and exploit
ahead of time allows us to plan ahead.
We can have an alarm system in place to scare
the burglar away and alert the police.
Security teams spend a lot of
time finding vulnerabilities and
thinking of how they can be exploited.
They do this with the process
known as vulnerability management.
Vulnerability management is the process
of finding and patching vulnerabilities.
Vulnerability management
helps keep assets safe.
It's a method of stopping threats
before they can become a problem.
Vulnerability management
is a four step process.
The first step is to
identify vulnerabilities.
The next step is to consider potential
exploits of those vulnerabilities.
Third is to prepare defenses
against threats. And finally,
the fourth step is to
evaluate those defenses.
When the last step ends,
the process starts again.
Vulnerability management
happens in a cycle.
It's a regular part of
what security teams do
because there are always new
vulnerabilities to be concerned about.
This is exactly why a diverse
set of perspectives is useful!
Having a wide range of backgrounds and
experiences only strengthens security
teams and their ability to find exploits.
However, even large and diverse security
teams can't keep track of everything.
New vulnerabilities
are constantly being discovered.
These are known as zero-day exploits.
A zero-day is an exploit
that was previously unknown.
The term zero-day refers to the fact that
the exploit is happening in real time
with zero days to fix it.
These kind of exploits are dangerous.
They represent threats that
haven't been planned for yet.
For example, we can anticipate the possibility of
a burglar breaking into our home.
We can plan for this type of threat
by having defenses in place,
like locks on the doors and windows.
A zero-day exploit would be
something totally unexpected,
like the lock on the door
falling off from intense heat.
Zero-day exploits are things that
don't normally come to mind.
For example, this might be a new form
of spyware infecting a popular website.
When zero-day exploits happen,
they can leave assets even more
vulnerable to threats than they already are.
Vulnerability management is the process of
finding vulnerabilities and fixing their exploits.
That's why the process is
performed regularly at most organizations.
Perhaps the most important step of the
process is identifying vulnerabilities.
We'll explore this step in more
details next time we get together.
I'll meet you again then!